Angular is a framework which allows you to create reactive, single page applications. This sounds great, but
what exactly does it mean?
A Single Page Application (SPA) is an application like the one shown here;
the project we're going to build throughout the course. You can navigate around and in the URL,
you can see that we seem to visit different pages,
but in the end, our page never changes.
It's only one HTML file and a bunch of JavaScript code we got from the server and everything which you see
here, every change, is rendered in the browser.
Now, why is that awesome?
It gives the user a very reactive user experience (UX).
JavaScript is much faster than having to reach out to a server for every page change and for every new
piece of data you want to display. Therefore, this approach allows you to create web applications
which look and feel almost like mobile applications; very fast!
Everything happens instantly.
If you do need some data from a server, you simply load it in the background so that the user
never leaves this experience of having a reactive web application to use.
So every click I do here simply changes this one single page
we're using; this one HTML page.
So, how is this done?
Well, JavaScript changes the DOM, changes whatever is displayed here (in the browser), by changing the HTML code during runtime
(so to say). That is why you never see the refresh icon on the top-left spin; because we're only changing
the currently-loaded page. You can even see that if you inspect the source code of a page like this.
That is the HTML file
and as you can see, it doesn't seem to contain the content you are seeing on this page.
We only have one single HTML element which doesn't seem to be a built-in one (a native one), but that's Angular
doing its job.
Throughout the course, you're going to learn exactly what happens here and how Angular does this job.